# MarkovVisual
A project that utilizes turtle combined with a Markov decision matrix to create artwork made of shapes. 

This project is personally meaningful to me because of the shapes that are used to make the artwork. Each shape is near and dear to my heard due to my passion in math and more specifically geometry. I have always been a numbers guy and mostly stumble over my words when I write (exhibit A, this paragraph). I thought it would be interesting to have my system create art using some shapes that I view are foundations of geometry. 

I was immediately pushed out of my comfort zome in this project through a little systems programming. My python was not working properly with turtle, so I had to do some digging in terminal, and quickly shook off the rust in that area and got to work. It was interesting to investigate the tools within numpy that allow for navigating around state spaces using a Markov matrix. Going forward I'd like to use more Python extension packages and explore their uses.

I do believe this system is creative, however I do not think it is aware of its creativity. When the program is run through multiple state spaces, new shapes are formed when the four shapes come together. This system itself is clever in moving from state to state because it is able to do it quickly and decisively calculating the probabilities of a transition to another state. I'd like to give a shoutout to Crystal for giving me the tip of using np.random.choice() which can use a row's probabilities to transition to the next state all in one function call. 